♪ [music] ♪
Next we're going to
be looking at how do
we deploy our application to Heroku.
Heroku is pretty popular in the Ruby
community, but it turns out they actually
do host, like, PHP, and Node,
and you name it. You'll be able to host
all kinds of different apps.
It's pretty simple to get up and
running. It's Git-based which is pretty
nice as well. So we want to go and create
a Heroku account, sign into your dashboard
if you don't already have one, and create
new app from that dropdown.
Then we're going to create an app called
here, "Now That's Delicious" and it's
going to say it's available. Obviously
don't call yours "Now That's Delicious"
because I just took it. Go ahead and click
this button, "Create App," and that's
going to spin up a little server for us.
Now what you need to do before you even
get going is you have to install the
Heroku CLI, which will give us a command
like this, Heroku, and that will allow us
to run our actual commands from there.
So if you do not already have that
installed, just go ahead and grab the
latest installer for whatever you're
running. Ideally, you're on OSX and you
can just run brew install Heroku. If
you're on Windows, it looks like they have
a nice little next, next, next installer,
and I guess on OSX they even have a nice
little next, next, next installer. If
you're on Linux, then good luck to you.
I'm joking, if you're on Linux you know
how to copy paste these commands.
Anyway, once you are there, go ahead and
run Heroku login via your terminal.
It's going to ask you for your username
and your password, and then you will be
logged in on your terminal as Heroku.
Then, we want to go into our existing Git
application, so it looks like right now, I
changed my package.json so I'm just going
to add that real quick. Good, so I am up
to date. And the way you can tell if
you're up to date if you don't have a
snazzy thing like me, you just say "Git
status" and you are up to date. Good.
Next, what you want to do is,
if you have an existing Git repo, which we
do, you simply just take this,
don't copy the dollar sign, and paste that
in there. Git remote,
"Now That's Delicious," and what it did is
it created a remote on your Git repo that
you can then push to actually get. So all
we have to do now is make sure we've
added and committed, which we have because
we're in green, and then you simply git
push Heroku master. And how this works is
that you're going to have, like, GitHub or
GitLab, or whatever it is that you're
pushing your git code to, but then you can
also do a git push to Heroku and also have
your application up and running on that.
So I'm going to give that a push and it's
going to actually upload everything that I
have. This will take a little bit since we
have all of those different images that
need to be uploaded. While we're waiting
for that, we didn't yet talk about
environmental variables. And there is no
way to include files in Heroku but not
include them in git, so what we need to do
for our environmental variables is to set
them via our dashboard. So I think we can
go to settings, and you see "config
variables." This is the exact same thing
as having a variables.env file, but
we're actually running it via the
dashboard. So we'll say "reveal." There is
none. And what I'll need you to do now is
to go to your variables.env file and just
go ahead and move them all over. I'm going
to move my .now ones over because that's
my production-ready ones. So the key is
going to be node end, take the equals off,
and we just need to go one by one by one
pasting all of these over.
All right, I got them all up and running,
let's go back to our terminal and see how
it's going. Looks like it just did it and
it says "deploy to Heroku." You can click
on it and we might be able to see our app.
We'll see. There we go,
it's up and running. What might happen is
if your app tries to start before you're
done with these environmental variables in
the back end, then it's going to crash
because it can't find these environmental
variables. So if that's the case,
you can go to your app, and you can
restart all dinos and what that will do is
it'll just kill your app and try to
restart it with the npm start
command again.
So that was very simple again, so we've
got our stores here, you'll be able to
click through to everything, log in no
problem with all that up and running.
So that's two of sort of these really
simple hosting, now let's look at how we
can actually do it with Digital Ocean,
which is sort of you got to build your
own server and get a little more
dirty while you're doing it.
♪ [music] ♪